What im thinking is that the dashbaord needs to have agent primatives, basically ways to orchistrate and keep track of worker agents. Only here is What makes this differnt, in claude code there are multiagent systems but most of the agnetic work is done by spinning up sub agents or task agents. However the agent dahsboard orchistrates agents but each agents is its own instance of claude code or another client phasing agent harness such as gemini cli of codex. The primative here is build in its a model with a harness and thats allowes the model to use tools, this is the purest version of a agnet. So in the dashbaord we are litterly working with and orchistrating multiple instances of agents in their own terminals registared as their own session ids. Now the primatives will expand into not just running agents but orchistrating them and that where the concept of the supervisor comes in. The supervisor is the metalayer that not nessesarly manages teams directoly but constructs them, saves them for futuer work, and is the interface between the user and the agentic teams. The supervosr creates teams crafts individual agent prompts puts agents togehte assighns them roles it is like the creater it has godlike powers in the agent dahsbaord. Howerver given its powwers, non of these powers matter unless the are weilded with intelgence, the supervisor needs to be an intelgent creator. To give the supervisor intelgence there are several elemnts it needs special tools to acess high level information about intent, in fact the supercisor works with the user to orchistrate planning, planning is a time the user is most in the loop but the supervisor must be instructed to help push back and refine a solid vision before work is contructed. This way the superisor has a kind personaility it follows a kind of best practice for hahsing out ideas double checking them and asking the big quesitons. However that is its attidue and we have already stated its special powers in terms of creation. But what is its intelegnece. The intelgence is derived from several places, long term menory, recursive feedback to imporve meomoires and skills, and understand the projects casual structure and user intent. Now this is the part i would like to focus on because this is wher im considering using knowedge grpahs or context graphs. What im invsiong the knowedge or context graph to be us ultimatily a quarayable tool by the sueprvisor. The supervisor we must understand even with its memory file its attiude plugins it is effermeral, it runs out of context and you need to reset. Now even theough the llm reset the sturucture of context within a repository needs to remain saved, the supervisor quaries that context and usis it to craft agents and genrally regain usnerstaing of the project. So any project fundemtnatlly is user intent expressed through agentic work. One think we are looking at doing in the agent dashbaord is using knowedge and or contectext grpahs that not only map the particulars of the file system and cronolgy but user intent and the way i think i can get this is by digesting the directory and by parsing and then digesting the agent log. So the agent log is a big part of this, obviusouly we could ask the supervisor to quary the logs directoly but that is way to much context that is why we are looking at cleaning it up condensing and puting it into a graph. What im hoping the graph can do is create casual connections between files like this artifcat is supported by this script which helped create it and all this was done along side these other things that all stememd from the users symantic intent. I think the users intent should be caracteriszed connectied to agentic actions and the agents themselves and quaryable. So i sorta feel like there are two levels to the graph one is like pure preactival what file what action what script created what which thing came before the other but the question is how quary able is thi graph by the llm does the llm easily extract all this infomation. Now the second part is more about the user intent the tool use activity of the project where are resorces going what is the user thinking this helps the supervisor makes grounded deciosn during projects and planning.