For the agent dashboard im thinking of really leaning into skills. Skills could be step by step instructions for a specific task, but they could also be examples for agent behavior sorta acting like a memory but more general, most importnantly skills can be programmatic execution via scripts. Take the mcp server for example which allows agents to create other agent and communicate with them. The thing is this multiagent corrdinatoin often falls within the same pattern for repeat tasks. It almost does not matter what the task is, we know we are going to want to follow a workflow where we plan, research, re-plan, delegate, and monitor context and results of worker agents, plus document. This workflow and its sub components then basically become core primatives of multiagent corrdnation. So asking the supervisor to use the mcp tool to craft this workflow could be a skill expressed as a markdown file however thats token heavy as the supervisor would be required to do a lot of thinking. If however the skill refences a script the supervirer can run, and this script calls the mcp tools, then the script can construct the core agentic primatives and the supervisor can preform the role its name implies, supervise. 

So what would a core primative agentic workflow organized by a script look like? First of all the script is modular so all components of it can be ran independly by the supervior and its easily editable, the supervisor can change key peramters to find tune it. If the script is often fine tuned to for example include defined presistant agents which may exsist in a directory then that script over time could become a new skill because this version of it specifically refences a presistant agentic team with memory that grows over time. 

So what might a agentic script do refenced inside a skill.md that makes the supervisor aware of its editably permaters and what to monitor during the run. Well we will start with the most fundemtnal element group think. 

Group think ie the planning committe is at least two agents of at least two different model providers who plan and scope projects independly and convien to debate, raise concern, and ultimately come to concensus. In the agent dashboard the beauity of group think is that each model is sitting within the agent harness that model provider designed, so all agents in the comitte have their own independent tools to explore the local code base and come to their own conclusions. Right here is an example of how meta skills can be like layers of an onion because if you imagine a planning comitte with claude code and codex, they will probably want to call skills which structure they way in which they review eachothers plans and raise concerns plus address those concerns, and they will probably want to call skills to help shape how they bring the user into the loop during the planning process which is always critical. The way i think about skills is they are pieces of a system prompt that are being deffered for latter, so instead of bloating the agents context with a large system prompt, we keep the system prompt lean and allow for discoverable elements of what could be in the system prompt to instead be progresssivly accessed by the agent. Now back to the script, the easy part is launching the agents and prompting them what to do ie plan, then what the script also needs to manage there interaction. Every back and forth communication between agents with large context cost a lot of money, we dont want chatty agents bikering about inmaterial elements of the plan. The script needs to know when the agents are done with their intial planning, the dashboard should offer this feature weather agents are running or idle. Once both are idle a generaic message can be pushed, the script can store the agent ids as variables so it knows who needs to communicate with who and when they are done. The script could reley on basic mcp abilty and gernaic messages to let the agent know who they are working with and that they should send their plan over to them, but a more token efficient way would probably be for the script to somehow " copy and paste" the plan from one agent and send it over to the other for review making them aware they are working with anoyher agent ect. This still needs to be worked out exacly how the script manages t=communication between two agents. Ultimatly after review however those agents are going to want to respond to the other agent so probably the two agents will just be told by the script to use the mcp therselves to communivate directly even though this is token heavy planning is the most crirical step anyways. 

Another core primative is research, after the agents come to a concensuss of the scope of the plan, the script could or even the supervisor who may want to look at the plan could raise the notion to the agents there is a possibility of doing futher research, this is always proposed as an option to the planners by a third party, i find it hard for the planning agents themelsves to reliably reach this possibility of deeper research. This will be a reacuring theme in which a third party agent or prompt injection from a script does not demand but reminds of the posibbilty of something and lets the agents decide. We did not mention it but the script which starts up the planning comitte needs to inject a prompt into these agents assuming they are new agents which are not presistant and the prompt should be sotred as a markdown file somewhere and refenced in the script. So when the agents come to concensus during planning, it is now time to inject the possibity of research, asking the agents if they feel there is anything worth researching online to get more clarity, if they feel there is they are told to construct a prompt and use the skill /deep-research which launches a headless claude code research agent. We may need to modify the deep research skill to ping the agent that called it when the research is done. Addintialy, the supervisors job is really to run the script that facilates these interactions as described but monitor the process, so perhapse the supervisor being claude code can leverage /loop or something of the sort to make sure its regualary checking in on the script, the script should output stuff specifically for the supervisor that is actually key. 

Research comes back agent reads it determins if it needs to make adjustment and does so, at this point the agent will probably concult with the ogiginal planning comitte regarding the research findings, the path to the research report and its deterimatioans so giving the other agent a rebuttal and one last concensus before the plan is solidified. At this point the plan is stored as a markdown file and once again we have a skill for writing up the final plan. The skill instructs the structure of the markdown plan with check marks but it also describes how the agents should scope the plan as phases and tasks with specific instructions to think through the length of a phase being conducive to a single worker agent being able to accomplish it in a 250-400K token context window. It also tells the planning agents to think about what context the worker agent will likly need for each phase, so each phase is a new agent but is each phase a new agnet context, its consevable that even through phase 2 is a sperapte agent from phase 1, the context they need is the same. This is important for latter when we talk about forking agents. Also the tasks within a phase need to be specified as to weather they can be done in parllell by subagents or not. 

At this point im a little worried about the token usage, the planning agents where exploring the code base, talking to eachother, talking with the user, reading research reports, talking some more, and now are scopping the work before writing the final plan. Its consivable that a sperate agent could help scope the work and write the final plan but scoping the work is probably best done by the agents which did the planning and thus exploring of the code base. This will be discussed but we already know we are committing to the largest token usage occurring around planning. 

At this point the plan with scopped tasks get reviewed by the other planning agnet and stored in a folder that holds plans, the dashboard will look for this folder and it will make the plans as UI elements in a new section of the dashabord that is yet to be designed. Each directory also has presistant agents also folders in a sub directory with claude.md and memories, the agent dashabord will also have UI elemnts to display these presistant agents. So now you have scopped project cards and agnets as dashabord elemnts. These plans can sit around waiting to be executed on, you can click on them review them and look at some metadata ect. Now the plan itself needs impeccable formatting because again a script is going to be reasonable for orchestrating the agents to run the plan and the script will likly need to parse elements like phase ect. The script can also control the rate of agent execution, if you want you can make the plan executable over 1 day or more so you dont burn too many tokens at once. The script can delay how long it takes before the next phase is ran, this deleay can be a genreric time deley or it could corrdinate with the supervior when its appropriate time to run the next phase based on user activity and usage limits. 

Forking agnets, this is a core primative for agent execution of a plan. Lets say phases 1-5 can all be done by one agent but that would be a lot of context bloat, the solution is to launch an agent tell it to scope phases 1-5 and once it gathers its context, you fork it. You run the fork for phase 1 and kill it, you go back to the orginal fork it and run that fork on phase 2 and kill it ect. So the orginal agent does not get used its preseverd and forked, in fact the orginal agnet id canbe saved in the plan markdown with sepcifcations on what phases its good for, the script can see that agent is good for phase 1-5 and it forks it for use as a worker agent for each phase. Even though these models can go up to a million in context we dont want to get anyhere near that we want to reuse a agent for short taks and kill it. The importnatn thing however, is when an agent is done it needs to write a little bit back the planning document, obviously it check off what it did but if it found something, or something was a little different or did not work quite as the plan specificed it makes a note of this in the markdown. There is the possibility here that the UI element follows the live markdown, so it can visualize the edits being made to the markown, the user would be looking at a clean ui element that in some more abstract way represents the state of the planning markdown file as agents report back the work, perhaspe the script that orchestrates the agents to run the work also is responable for updating the ui element. For instance if the script is going to wait 2 hours before running the next phase this will be reflected in the ui element, if the agent reports back a note about the ecution and it writes this to the markown file this gets updated as a ui element, the ui is not a 1 for 1 of the markown. The risk is the script being able to parse the markdown to translate it to ui, if agents make notes in a way that is not parsable thats an issue, however agnets will probably load skills that instruct how they report back their work to the markdown. The script can also just reley on last edit to markown rather than exact syntax too. The script that forks and launches these worker agents does need to instruct them, again inject a prompt like here is the phase of your work, and a little prompt telling it what skills it has acess to like when done skill, use this skill when complete with your work. Now that im thinking about it perhapse worker agents should have hooks, not sure how this gets initated but when they are done, specifically this hook needs to apply to just workier agents, they can write back results to the markdown witha  specific schema. This is yet to be determined but the basic concepts are layed out here and the script again does need to launch agnets and inject them with a prompt thats based off the markdown planning document and relevant skills or hooks any worker agent should be aware of. 

What if a plan can be executed by presistant agents in the workspace. I think the supervisors role is to really be the one to launch these agent orchaitration scripts and monior there progress and outputs. So lets say we have a plan, its sitting on the dahsbaord as a ui element, its time to execute, you just click execute, and it calls the supervisor. The supervisor looks over the plan, it determins if there a presistant agent thats good for the job or if it will be generatic agents, depending on its determination it may modify the variables in the agnet execution script replacing certain genratic agnet varibles for a presistant agnent before running the script. 

Basically thats the concepts here, a script that uses the dahsbaord mcp to hard code agnetic interactions that act as core prmatives, planning research and execution. The superviors role is change varaibles in this script when apprioate, run it, and monitor its outputs and progress. The scrip will likly render changes to ui elemnts that help the user quicky see whats going on. 

In terms of ui elements the dashboard will also have panes not just to view planned projects and monitor there progress, but to as mentioned view presistant agents including agent teams that are desighened to work together such that you can see stats how often they are deployed what tasks they last worked on how much they spent ect, but also most impritnatly there is a pane for viewing a leader style bord for all skills you have across all your repos pulled up in the app, this is the most imporntat. The way this will work is skills are ultimately files in your direcoty and we can parse them and inventory them with description ect. But how are they used and in what context and teh results they produced are the most important infoamtion. For this we reley on parsing the agent logs, we have script to parse logs and pull put when skills where called aby an agent, the agent id, the time and the context so what other tools the agent called what the agents thought was when using the skill and what the user context was around the skill call, these are just extracted by a script. We then may need to have a small llm analayze the extracted data from the logs to gain some kind of insigt. Ultimatly the dahsbaord lets you see how often skills are being called from what directorys and under what cecumstnaces. This is all leading to an opertunity for the user to evalute the effeivtiness of a skill to potnaitlly modify it or even run tests around the skill to understand its behavior better. The dahsbaord is making a directinal call on the impornatns of multiagent orchestration and skills as most important. 
