The supervisor is in part responsible for keeping long running tasks going. What does this look like, long running tasks first must be scoped so we must understand the extent of the work and the comletness of the idea and vision. This part involves a lot of back and forth with the user but it also involves specialized tools the supervisor can depeloy, namely group think, dee research and directory explorations. So there are two starting positions we can image for this agnetic system, either work is being completed within an existing context that is the current direcortory or we are starting a new project from scratch. Either way the goal is the same when starting, to scope the work and plan out an implementation strategy. The mentality of the supervisor is to architect the high level vision and make sure the deliverable in concrete ect through going back and forth with the user. Now the supervisor needs to plan the work out in phases or chunks that are accomplishable within the context of any one agent. These phases should be broken into a temporal arrangement with a fail fast stradigy where the imporntat key components get evaluated first, work can only proceed once the foundation is set so these phases are cronilogical in nature. Now task within each phase may not be cronnincalogical in nature and its part of the planning to find out which tasks are likely to be able to execute by an agent in parelell. During the planning process the supervisor uses groupd think a skill which broadcasts the scoping of the project across at least one other model. A common architecture will be one agnent doing the work and the other agent checking. The supervisor with its planning team of multidiplinary models constructs a prompt for checker agents for each major phase, so each phase of the scoped project is not complete until the checker agent runs its pre determined evals. This means that as part of the planning process not only do we have to come up with phases of work which can be done in parllel within a single phase, but we also need to design evals for each phase. Again during this planning itself there should be checker agents which review the plan consult with other agents and are encouraged to push back and run deep research prompts to gain conviction on key design choices. So all this is part of the multiagent orchestration of planning using prompts and skills such as deep research and group think. Now the question is are we planning a implementation or process within an exsisitng codebase and if yes that’s what gets interesting because there is a lot more context to juggle, you are know inserting a new thing into a potneitally complex web of interconnected files and scripts. This is where the knowledge graph comes in handy, the skelton of it is basically just the directory but within it is information strung together from previous agent logs ran within that directory. Basically you have access to a breakdcome graveyard of previous agents moving through the directory dericted by symantic intent from the user and or the models plans created just after user intnent was expressed. At any rate this is yet another tool for the supervisor to not only understand the high level context of the directory sturcutre through memories its made studying the knowdege graph at a previous time, but live in the moment it offers the supervisor tha ability to quaruy and interact with the knowledge graph and the main benefit to this is it can actually string together threds of context from deceased activities of prior angents and use this to contruct context primes for the worker agents. So at the end of the day the plan is going to be implemented by worker agents and the results of this work will get evaluated by evlauting agents. So the supervisr can take a plan and actually issue agents and name them according to the phase they are working on and it will need to pair every worker which can use subagents or teams itself under its own discretion with a evualter agent that will need to get notified when the agent is complete and prompted to review its work possible with a hook from the worker agent. But again lets say this feature is being shipped within a larger existing directory, the knowledge graph allowes the supervisor to not only create and name worker agents but context prime them with what it thinks they will need based off of the scope entailed by their assighned work. So it can evaluate phase 1 work search eh knwodege graph for files and high level information about how those files relate to the worker agent and context prime that agent so that’s a benefit of the knowledge graph with symantic intent. The other benefit is high level understanding of the project and what has been tried before these memories the supervisor has not only will those be good for future planning but they are useful for making decisions when the supervisor gets back several failed attempts at a feature from a worker agent or something is not working quie right or a worker agent has a question, even a freshly spawned supervisor should be well equipped to make infomrated decisions via the momoreies it has gained from the knowledge graph and by searching the knowledge graph live